## Introduction
I've built and flown FPV drones for a few years now as a happy and I truly enjoy both building them and flying then. Usually, I end up spending more time building the drones and fixing/repairing them than actually flying then, but for me that is very satisfying. So, during the last two years or so, the prices of electronics for FPV drones has almost doubled. I remember that I bought the first stack of FC + ESC for about 40$, and the very same stack goes for around 70-80$ today. This increase in price together with my own curiosity and maker-mind has made me wanting to build my own FPV electronics for some time, and now it's finally time to take fhe first step!

This is the journey for me building my very first flight controller hardware for an FPV drone. I will design the schematics and PCB in KiCad and order them, together with components, which I will then solder (by hand probably). I'm planning to write my firmware for the FC as well, mainly because I think it's interesting and a fun challenge. My idea is that I will start by making the flight controller, and making the first revision of the drone with my custom flight controller, and all the other parts will be off-the-shelf. Then, perhaps I can create my custom ESC, custom RX, VTX etc, so in the end I will have only custom electronics on my FPV drones! This will probably take a long time however, so for now, let's focus on the flight controller.

## Flight Controller, rev. A
For the first revision, I will have the following main components of the flight controller:
| Component | Description | Motivation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| rp2040 | Main microcontroller | *Very* cheap mcu which is quite new on the market. It has two cores, and I've wanted to use the rp2040 for custom projects for some time now. Since it's supported by the raspberry pi community it has extensive documentation as well as a C SDK. How well this will perform to the famous STM32F4 I do not know yet, so we will have to find out! One thing that does worry me slightly is the lack of UART buses. The rp2040 only has 2 UART buses, *but* it does have programmable IO, which I believe can handle UART communication as well, so it might be possible to extend these 2 buses to more.
| MPU-6050 | Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) | The famous MPU-6050 must be one of the most popular IMUs for makers in general and on flight controllers. The reason I chose this was simply because I had bought a pack of 10 of these some time ago so I had them laying around. The support for MPU-6050 (in forms of drivers, documentation etc) as well is extensive so there should be no problem to set it up. An important note is that the MPU-6050 is very old and no longer produced, so if this flight controller ever were to become a product, the MPU-6050 must be changed.

Here's some bullet points about some design decisions for revision A:
- There's no OSD chip like MAX7456, or SD card holder simply to keep the scope and complexity down.
- There's solder pads for individual ESCs. Mainly because I had some individual ESCs at home I wanted to use.
- Keep it simple!

Since there's no OSD chip on rev A, I will mainly use this revision to try to get the most basic drone flying working.